=MongoDB Ruby Driver Koans

Written for Chicago Ruby by Ginny Hendry and Nola Stowe

Based on http://rubykoans.com/ and http://github.com/edgecase/ruby_koans

Requires: 	
* Ruby 1.8.7 or later
* Rake (any version)
* MongoDB 1.6.3 or later
* gem install mongo
* gem install bson

Recommended:	gem install bson_ext   

To run:
* Download source
* cd to that directory
* rake
* Edit program file that reported an error
* Fix one error only!  and think about what you learned
* and run rake again 


=EdgeCase Ruby Koans, Original Readme 

The Ruby Koans walk you along the path to enlightenment in order to learn Ruby. 
The goal is to learn the Ruby language, syntax, structure, and some common 
functions and libraries. We also teach you culture. Testing is not just something we
pay lip service to, but something we live.  It is essential in your quest to learn 
and do great things in the language.  

== The Structure

The koans are broken out into areas by file, hashes are covered in about_hashes.rb, 
modules are introduced in about_modules.rb, etc.  They are presented in order in the 
path_to_enlightenment.rb file.  

Each koan builds up your knowledge of Ruby and builds upon itself.  It will stop at 
the first place you need to correct.  

Some koans simply need to have the correct answer substituted for an incorrect one. 
Some, however, require you to supply your own answer.  If you see the method +__+ (a 
double underscore) listed, it is a hint to you to supply your own code in order to 
make it work correctly.  

== Installing Ruby

If you do not have Ruby setup, please visit http://ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/ for 
operating specific instructions.  In order to run this you need ruby and rake 
installed. To check the installations simply type:

*nix platforms from any terminal window:

   [~] $ ruby --version
   [~] $ rake --version

Windows from the command prompt (cmd.exe)

   c:\ruby --version 
   c:\rake --version
   
Any response for Ruby with a version number greater than 1.8 is fine (should be 
around 1.8.6 or more). Any version of rake will do.  

== The Path To Enlightenment

You can run the tests through rake or by calling the file itself (rake is the
recommended way to run them as we might build more functionality into this task).

*nix platforms, from the koans directory

    [ruby_koans] $ rake                           # runs the default target :walk_the_path
    [ruby_koans] $ ruby path_to_enlightenment.rb  # simply call the file directly
    
Windows is the same thing

    c:\ruby_koans\rake                             # runs the default target :walk_the_path
    c:\ruby_koans\ruby path_to_enlightenment.rb    # simply call the file directly
    
=== Red, Green, Refactor

In test-driven development the mantra has always been, red, green, refactor.  Write a
failing test and run it (red), make the test pass (green), then refactor it (that is
look at the code and see if you can make it any better.  In this case you will need
to run the koan and see it fail (red), make the test pass (green), then take a 
moment and reflect upon the test to see what it is teaching you and improve the
code to better communicate its intent (refactor).

The very first time you run it you will see the following output:

    [ ruby_koans ] $ rake
    (in /Users/person/dev/ruby_koans)
    cd koans
    
    Thinking AboutAsserts
      test_assert_truth has damaged your karma.
    
    You have not yet reached enlightenment ...
    <false> is not true.
    
    Please meditate on the following code:
    ./about_basics.rb:10:in `test_assert_truth'
    path_to_enlightenment.rb:27

    mountains are merely mountains
    
You have come to your first stage. If you notice it is telling you where to look for
the first solution:

    Please meditate on the following code:
    ./about_basics.rb:10:in `test_assert_truth'
    path_to_enlightenment.rb:27
    
We then open up the about_basics.rb file and look at the first test:

    # We shall contemplate truth by testing reality, via asserts.
    def test_assert_truth
      assert false                # This should be true
    end

We then change the +false+ to +true+ and run the test again.  After you are
done, think about what you are learning.  In this case, ignore everything except
the method name (+test_assert_truth+) and the parts inside the method (everything 
before the +end+).  
 
In this case the goal is for you to see that if you pass a value to the +assert+ 
method, it will either ensure it is +true+ and continue on, or fail if in fact
the statement is +false+.   
 
== Inspiration

A special thanks to Mike Clark and Ara Howard for inspiring this project.  Mike Clark
wrote an excellent blog post about learning Ruby through unit testing. This sparked 
an idea that has taken a bit to solidify, that of bringing new rubyists into the 
community through testing. Ara Howard then gave us the idea for the Koans in his 
ruby quiz entry an Meta Koans (a must for any rubyist wanting to improve their skills).

Mike Clark's post ::  http://www.clarkware.com/cgi/blosxom/2005/03/18
Meta Koans        ::  http://rubyquiz.com/quiz67.html

== Other Resources

The Ruby Language               ::  http://ruby-lang.org
Try Ruby in your browser        ::  http://tryruby.sophrinix.com

Dave Thomas' introduction to Ruby Programming Ruby (the Pick Axe) ::  http://pragprog.com/titles/ruby/programming-ruby

Brian Marick's fantastic guide for beginners Everyday Scripting with Ruby    ::  http://pragprog.com/titles/bmsft/everyday-scripting-with-ruby

= Other stuff

Author::   Jim Weirich <jim@weirichhouse.org>
Author::   Joe O'Brien <joe@edgecase.com>
Requires:: Ruby 1.8.x or later and Rake (any version)


